Graph Edge Import (#115)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/collections/graphs/add-edges.md

---
title: Add Edges to Collection
sidebar_position: 30
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page explains how to add edges to a Graph Edge collection.

## Add an Edge with the Console

> Follow these instructions to add documents to an existing document collection using the GDN console web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add edge documents to a collection:
```

Author: They actually call them "edges." It's wacky.

1. Log in to your Macrometa account.
1. Click **COLLECTIONS**.
2. In the collection list, click the name of the edge collection to which you want to add an edge. If you aren't sure which collections are Graph Edge collections, then you can click **Edge** at the top of the page to see just Graph Edge collections.
3. Click **New Document**.
4. Enter information in the fields.

>    - **_from -** Document _id from which the relationship originates.

Reviewer: Should we use code tag for these descriptions, i.e.:

```suggestion
   - **_from -** Document `_id` from which the relationship originates.
```

>    - **_to -** Document _id to which the relationship is defined.

Reviewer: Same Q as above:

```suggestion
   - **_to -** Document `_id` to which the relationship is defined.
```

   - **_key -** Optional. If left blank, then Macrometa automatically generates a key.
5. Click **Create**.

## Add Edges from a File

> Follow these instructions to add documents to an existing document collection from a JSON or CSV file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add edge documents to a collection from a JSON or CSV file:
```

![Import a Document](/img/collections/import-docs.png)

1. Log in to your Macrometa account.
1. Click **COLLECTIONS**.

> 1. In the collection list, click the name of the edge collection to which you want to add an edge. If you aren't sure which collections are Graph Edge collections, then you can click **Edge** at the top of the page to see just Graph Edge collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the collection list, click the name of the edge collection to which you want to add an edge. 

    Click **Edge** at the top of the page to filter everything but edge collections.
```

@diana-macrometa Don't think we've discussed this, but for secondary statements/supporting statements in steps, do we want to have them on the same line or a separate line nested beneath the step (as I did above)?  Also, not sure I formatted it 100% properly

> 1. Click the import icon, which is a down arrow pointing to a file box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the import icon (down arrow pointing to a file box).
```

@diana-macrometa Any opinions on parentheses versus simply having a dependent clause?  This way is slightly less wordy, but the parens clutter things up a bit.

Either way, we can probably delete this explanation once we have screenshots.

## Add Documents with Code

The example below shows how to use Python or JavaScript to insert documents into an `employees` collection.

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
  <TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```py
    client = C8Client(protocol='https', host='gdn.paas.macrometa.io', port=443,
                            email='nemo@nautilus.com', password="xxxxxx",
                            geofabric='_system')
    client.insert_document(collection_name='employees', document={'_key':'Jean', 'firstname': 'Jean', 'lastname':'Picard', 'email':'jean.picard@macrometa.io'})

    docs = [
      {'_kefabricy':'James', 'firstname': 'James', 'lastname':'Kirk', 'email':'james.kirk@mafabriccrometa.io'},
      {'_kefabricy': 'Han', 'firstname': 'Han', 'lastname':'Solo', 'email':'han.solo@macrfabricometa.io'},
      {'_kefabricy': 'Bruce', 'firstname': 'Bruce', 'lastname':'Wayne', 'email':'bruce.wayne@mfabricacrometa.io'}
    ]

    client.insert_document(collection_name='employees', document=docs)
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="js" label="Javascript">

```js
    const jsc8 = require("jsc8");

>     // Crete a authenticated instance with Token / Apikey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Create an authenticated instance with a token or API key.
```

    // const client = new jsc8({url: "https://gdn.paas.macrometa.io", token: "XXXX", fabricName: '_system'});
    // const client = new jsc8({url: "https://gdn.paas.macrometa.io", apiKey: "XXXX", fabricName: '_system'});
    // await console.log("Authentication done!!...");

>     // Or use Email and Password to Authenticate client instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Or use email and password to authenticate client instance.
```
